# MBIO691I_Project
Maryann Webb Project for MBIO 691, Fundamentals of computing

This is my final project for MBIO 691I, Fundamentals of computing Fall 2024 semester. The project asked us to look at a modeling dataset that contained a variety of parameters that were used to predict coral cover in 2100. We were asked to make three figures that help us visualize and understand that data better. 

The first figure I made looked at the final end predictions of SST and pH (ocean acidification). I did not look at coral cover in this figure because I wanted to start by looking at some of the factors used to predict coral cover. The Violin plot showed that the average SST and pH ending points for all models were realtively equal. This tells me that while the models may not have greatly differed in the final ending points, the trajectories of these variables likely changed across models. 

The second figure required a calculation of the percent change in coral cover between the beginning point of the model (2020) and the end point (2100). Here I ran into an unexpected issue where some of my calculated percent changes were way over 100%. I fought with my data for many hours and ended up removing these oddities from the dataset moving forward (see notes in my code). Figure 2 looks at the how predicted coral cover changed by latitude. I added color to highlight the differences in percent change in coral cover. The lightest colors are where the models predicted an average huge loss of coral cover. As the color gets darker, and passes the zero change mark, there is actually a gain in coral cover. As latitude increases (to the north or south, away from the equator), there is less overall coral loss and some predicted gains in coral cover. (I'm skeptical that anywhere will actually gain a ton of coral cover, but I'm guessing it has to do with my super wonky numbers calculating percent chagne). 

The third figure is similar to the second but puts the data in more of a global context. We can see Where these areas of predicted increases in coral cover are (while skeptical, it at least makes sense that these are further away from the equator). The darkest colors (purple) show where average predicted coral cover across models is extremely high (i.e. loss of 100%). This includes the Hawaiian islands, the norther Caribbean, and lots of places along the east coast of Africa and the Coral Triangle. As the color moves to lighter tones (e.g. blue and teal), there will be less of a change in coral cover.

These figures are not perfect and I cannot for the life of me figure out how to get the caption included and not cut off. I am still working on it but was unable to figure it out before the due date. 